package Sojolicious;
use strict;
use warnings;

our $VERSION = '0.13';

1;

__END__

=pod

=head1 Sojolicious

Sojolicious is a toolkit for the federated social web, containing
plugins for the powerful web framework L<Mojolicious>
written in Perl.

=head2 Goal

Sojolicious mainly focus on support for the L<OStatus|http://ostatus.org/>
meta protocol and aims for a straight forward implementation of all
surrounding specifications.

The design goal is to make all plugins useful on their own,
as separated building blocks of OStatus, while playing well
with each other. All plugins are application (despite the fact
that they are Mojolicious-Plugins) and storage agnostic,
providing event driven hooks for usage.

All plugins have no requirements other than L<Mojolicious> and Perl 5.10.1
(core modules).

Sojolicious is work in progress. There are missing parts currently developed
and existing parts reworked. Don't use it in its current status!

=head2 Synopsis

  package MySocialApp;
  use Mojolicious;

  sub startup {
    my $app = shift;

    # Load Plugins
    $app->plugin('Webfinger');
    $app->plugin('PubSubHubbub');
    $app->plugin('Salmon');

    my $r = $app->routes;

    # Establish webfinger url
    $r->route('/webfinger')->lrdd('q');

    # Esablish Salmon Endpoints:
    my $salmon = $r->route('/salmon');
    for ($salmon) {
	$_->route('/:acct/mentioned')->salmon('mentioned');
	$_->route('/:acct/all-replies')->salmon('all-replies');
	$_->route('/signer')->salmon('signer');
    };

    # Add pubsubhubbub callback url
    $r->route('/pubsub')->pubsub('cb');

    $app->hook(
      'on_salmon_follow' => sub {
        ... # You received a follow request
      };
    );

    $app->hook(
      'on_pubsub_content' => sub {
        my ($plugin, $c, $type, $dom) = @_;
        ...
    };
  };

  package main;
  MySocialApp->start;

=head2 Plugins for ...

=over 2

=item L<ActivityStreams|http://activitystrea.ms/specs/atom/1.0/>

=item L<Atom|https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4287.txt>

=item L<Atom-Threading-Extension|https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4685.txt>

=item L<HostMeta|http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-hammer-hostmeta>

=item L<MagicSignatures|http://salmon-protocol.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/draft-panzer-magicsig-01.html>

=item L<OStatus|http://ostatus.org/sites/default/files/ostatus-1.0-draft-2-specification.html>

=item L<PortableContacts|http://portablecontacts.net/draft-spec.html>

=item L<PubSubHubbub|https://pubsubhubbub.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pubsubhubbub-core-0.3.html>

=item L<Salmon|http://salmon-protocol.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/draft-panzer-salmon-00.html>

=item L<XRD|http://docs.oasis-open.org/xri/xrd/v1.0/xrd-1.0.html>

=item L<Webfinger|http://code.google.com/p/webfinger/wiki/WebFingerProtocol>

As Sojolicious is in its early stages, there is currently work on
most of these protocols. There is no stable release at GitHub or CPAN.

There are plans to expand the scope to other social protocols,
for example L<OExchange|http://www.oexchange.org/spec/>.

=back

=head2 Acknowledgement

C<ActivityStreams> was developed by Martin Atkins, Will Norris, Chris Messina, Monica Wilkinson, and Rob Dolin.
C<Atom> was developed by Mark Nottingham and Robert Sayre.
C<Atom Threading Extensions> was developed by James M. Snell.
C<HostMeta> was developed by  Eran Hammer-Lahav and Blaine Cook.
C<MagicSignatures> was developed by John Panzer, Ben Laurie, and Dirk Balfanz.
L<Mojolicious> is written by Sebastian Riedel.
C<OStatus> was developed by Evan Prodromou, Brion Vibber, James Walker, and Zach Copley.
C<PortableContacts> was developed by Joseph Smarr.
C<PubSubHubbub> was developed by Brad Fitzpatrick, Brett Slatkin, and Martin Atkins.
C<Salmon> was developed by John Panzer.
C<Webfinger> was developed by Brad Fitzpatrick, Eran Hammer-Lahav, Blaine Cook, John Panzer, and Joe Gregorio.
C<XRD> was developed by Eran Hammer-Lahav and Will Norris.

... just to name the persons officially responsible for maintaining the code and the specifications.
Thanks to all contributors of these projects as well!

And thanks to all implementors of these specifications for inspiring code (which is referenced in the sourcecode).

Participation on conferences was supported by the BMBF-project L<Linguistic Networks|http://project.linguistic-networks.net/>.

=head2 Where to learn more?

L<http://mojolicio.us>,
L<http://ostatus.org/>.

=head1 ... and?

Copyright (C) 2011, Nils Diewald.

This program is free software, you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl.

=cut
